.TH NFTIMESTAMP 8 "University of Illinois"
.SH NAME
nftimestamp \- Set Notesfile sequencer timestamps
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nftimestamp
[
.B -v
] [
.B "-t"
.i "time specification"
]
notesfile [ notesfile ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The Notesfile system uses timestamps to determine which
articles in a notesfile have been read by an individual
user.
The timestamps are compared with arrival times of the individual
articles to determine if a user has seen that article.
.I Nftimestamp
provides a simple mechanism for updating many timestamps.
.PP
In the usual case,
.I nftimestamp
is invoked with a list of notesfiles.
The invoking user's sequencer timestamps for the specified
notesfiles are set to the current time.
The
.B "-t"
option allows the user to specify some different time.
Notesfiles are
specified in the same manner as on the
.I notes
command line.
Include notesfiles by using their name;
the shell wildcard characters (?*[]) are correctly expanded.
Exclude notesfiles be prefixing their name with an exclamation
mark:
.IR "!notesfile" .
The
.B "-f"
option reads a list of notesfiles to be included and excluded
from the specifid file.
.PP
The Notesfile Administrator can use the
.B "-u"
option to set the sequencer for systems and other users.
.PP
The
.I seqtoascii
and
.I seqtobinary
utilities provide the same function as this program.
Using those programs, the user must change each timestamp
manually and then restore the sequencer file.
.I Nftimestamp
provides a simpler interface.
.SH FILES
.PD 0
.TP 35
/etc/passwd
for the users name
.TP 35
/etc/group
for the users group
.TP 35
/usr/spool/notes
the default notesfile data base
.PD
.SH SEE ALSO
notes(1),
seqtoascii(1), seqtobinary(1),
.br
.ul
The Notesfile Reference Manual
.SH AUTHORS
.nf
Ray Essick (uiucdcs!essick, essick@a.cs.uiuc.edu)
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign
Urbana, IL
.fi
